---
title: SONM review. Supercomputer Organized by Network Mining
author: Tiago Vasconcelos
marketcap_tag: sonm
---

## What is SONM?
SONM is a global operating system that is also a decentralized worldwide fog supercomputer. It has has the potential to include unlimited computing power (IoE, IoT). Worldwide computations organized using our system can serve to complete numerous tasks from CGI rendering to scientific computations.

From a technical point of view, SONM is a top layer of underlying P2P technologies – BTSync for data transfer, Cocaine open source PaaS technology as a decentralized computing platform, and Ethereum Smart Contracts as a consensus system.

The defining feature of SONM is its decentralized open structure, where Buyers and Workers can interact with no middlemen, while building a market profitable for them first, unlike other cloud services (Amazon, Microsoft, Google). Unlike widespread centralized cloud services, the SONM project implements a fog computing structure – a decentralized pool of devices, all of which are connected to the internet (IoT / Internet of Everything).

>SONM is implemented using SOSNA – Superglobal Operating System with Network Architecture for fog computing.

In terms of providing distributed value for investors, SONM uses its own token SNM, based on the Ethereum blockchain. Almost every online service needs computational power for their product, including websites, online shops, MMORPGs, companies using large databases, and apps. Everyone in the world who uses the internet for business will have an option to use SONM tokens to solve their computing power issues. Also, all internet users will be able to use SONM to receive passive income by providing their computational resources for rent.

>We expect SONM to be the smartest, cheapest and largest decentralized computing system with strong rules regarding morality and loyalty.

The flexibility of the SONM platform and its multi-purposeness is knit to PoE (Proof of Execution) for non-deterministic task which is a unique technology owned by SONM.

## The SONM token (SNM)
SNM is a token issued on Ethereum blockchain, it follows the widely adopted token implementation standards. This allows token holders to easily store and manage their SNM tokens using existing solutions including Ethereum Wallet.

SNM price is supported by stable market demand for computing power and ability to provide more competitive prices than traditional cloud computing services. SONM token holders earn a percentage from transactions and operations fees (buy-sell-develop). It is a direct analogue of holding shares and receiving dividends from
operational profit.

### Pitching to miners
SONM offers an opportunity for miners to earn tokens by performing calculations for everyone in the network. Any smart device (CPU, GPU, PlayStation, and even smartphone) located anywhere in the world can take advantage by joining the fog network and selling computing power peer-to-peer via the SONM Application Pool.

__Multi-agent system__, so each user will able to use intelligent agents and smart-contracts to
maximize profit. You can set your automatization level by choosing each project manually with one-click
settings. The SONM system will then automatically pick the most profitable project for your equipment,
work with it and receive payouts to your personal Ethereum address.

__Easy to setup and use__, both for miners and computing power buyers. There is no need to have
advanced IT skills or to hire an IT specialist if you use SONM — our self-learning system finds the most
profitable task for miner’s equipment (and vice versa for buyers). The network also runs this task with no
need to set up and support a dedicated server.

__Self-learning__ and totally safe for its users. Our system supports anonymity tools like proxy, VPN
or TOR, but it can’t be used as a hacker dream toolkit. Intelligent agents are able to self-educate using
neural networks and keep malicious users out of the system, while at the same time providing the most
efficient task solution - both for miners and computational power buyers.

## Fog Computing
The so-called "*computing fog*" is the layer of computational resources able to process some kind of task. However, aside from computing fog, the system also involves its users setting computational tasks, and some middleware distributing these tasks among the fog resources, which then returns the result of the calculations.
