---
title: Civic review. Secure Identity Platform and ID Theft Protection
author: Tiago Vasconcelos
marketcap_tag: civic
---

## What is Civic?
Civic is an identity management service that allows you to protect and authorize the use of your identity in real-time. It also has additional features to help protect your identity such as credit report alerting, identity fraud coverage, and access to 24/7 fraud support.
It’s an identify verification system that lets anyone give and get “know your customer” information through a trusted source.

Civic aims to become the trusted third party source for securing and verifying your identity. They're building partnerships with banks, credit card companies, online lenders, wireless and cable providers, employee verification services - in fact, any institution that uses your identity.

## What does this mean?
User authentication is a growing security threat that organizations face today. With identity theft and data breach numbers reaching new heights every year, businesses pay millions of dollars to ensure that the transactions on their servers are authentic. Hackers steal identities and impersonate valid customers, racking up thousands of dollars of fraudulent charges.

Civic allows you to authenticate without the need for traditional physical IDs, knowledge based authentication, username/password, and two-factor hardware tokens. New account creation can be simplified by providing verified identity data with the Civic app. While this service may sound similar to Facebook Login, Civic’s Secure Private Sign-up (SPS) and Secure Private Login (SPL) offers both privacy of data transactions and greater trust in user identity. By utilizing SPS, you can rest assured that new accounts are created by the true owner of the identity data. Civic’s SPL enables you to allow your users to log in to your web and mobile apps without a username or password.  SPL provides a better user experience and multi-factor authentication without weak passwords, password reset vulnerabilities and the hassle of legacy two-factor authentication.

__Some solutions Civic may apply__
- __Cryptocurrency__: Secure new account creation using Civic verified identity for KYC. Multi-factor authentication for web and mobile apps.
- __E-Signature__: Better user experience with more options to establish various levels of trust in the identity of a signer of a document.
- __Social__: Secure account creation that offers varying levels of privacy to your users, including anonymity or verified demographic attributes.
- __Financial Services__: Avoid new account fraud with verified identity data.  Multi-factor authentication with simple user experience.
- __E-Commerce__: Reduce the impact of data breach by not storing user PII with credit card data.  Avoid identity fraud with a Civic verified identity.
- __Medical__: Allow Civic Members to securely store and instantly share authenticated medical records from their device with the Civic App

## Will it Work?
KYC (know your costumer) is a huge manual headache for companies, this is 10x cheaper, faster and better. From a consumer perspective, KYC is annoying and people are lazy. You just need to have your information on one place, fill it once, it's encrypted on the Civic's blockchain.

There's also a Wordpress plugin to be released soon. Other partnerships are already in place, WikiHow, Jaxx, Shapeshift, Xapo.

## Social
Facebook: [@civictechnologiesinc](https://www.facebook.com/civictechnologiesinc)

Twitter: [@civickey](https://twitter.com/civickey)

LinkdIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/civic-technologies

Telegram: https://t.me/civicplatform

Reddit: [r/civicplatform/](https://www.reddit.com/r/civicplatform/)
