---
title: VeChain review.
author: Tiago Vasconcelos
marketcap_tag: vechain
---

## What is VeChain?
VeChain is a global leading blockchain platform for products and information.
In the past two years, VeChain has accumulated great amount of experience in providing blockchain solutions to various industries including liquor, auto, luxury goods, retail, logistics, supply chain, etc.  
The vision of VeChain is to build a trust-free and distributed business ecosystem based on the Blockchain technology self-circulated and expanding.

## Solutions
__Luxury Goods:__ In cooperation with one of the prestigious luxury brands in Europe, VeChain embedded its specially designed anti-counterfeiting NFC chips into the products and realized anti-counterfeiting, product tracing and lifecycle management with the blockchain technology. Consumers can learn the unique “story” behind the product by simply scanning the embedded chip with the mobile application.

__Agriculture:__ VeChain provides the solution of blockchain enabled cloud services in combination with IoT technology specially designed for the green organic agriculture industry. It aims to provide precise data to enhance the quantity and quality of the crops, by this way it will minimize the negative impact to the environment and significantly increase the value of the quality inspection of the crops.

__Logistics:__ VeChain uses the blockchain technology to make the information exchange in a much more convenient and secure way among various parties on the supply chain such as retailers, distributors, transportation, and storage companies. It enhances the efficiency of the logistics process and makes innovative business models possible.

__Government:__ Municipal government agencies join the blockchain network as nodes. Blockchain’s features such as decentralization, immutability and encryption will enable transparent information exchange and collaboration, which can significantly enhance the quality and efficiency of the government services on the Internet.

__Food/Drugs:__ VeChain digitalizes the track records of food/drugs from its origin and every steps following that till it reaches the consumer. This enables the tracking of the food/drugs throughout its lifecycle and enhances the monitoring over it, which in turn boosts consumer's trust in the food/drug safety.

## VEN
The token used in VeChain ecosystem is called VeChain Token (VEN).
VeChain Token (VEN) is the blood in VeChain distributed platform. All participants shall use VeChain Token (VEN) to get products and services.

## Social
Website: https://www.vechain.com/

Twitter: [@vechainofficial](https://twitter.com/vechainofficial)

Reddit: [/r/Vechain/](https://www.reddit.com/r/Vechain/)
